---
layout: post
title:  Ariella Granett, California
description: I helped launch Flight Free USA in 2020 as a chapter of the European campaign and with the support of volunteers, friends, and mentors. My spark was m...
date:   2020-10-01 00:00:00 +0300
image:  '/images/ariella-granett-california.jpeg'
tags:   ['one-without', 'climate-policy', 'climate-emergency', 'climate-change', 'two-sides', 'thousand-conversations', 'teenage-son', 'system-change']
---
I helped launch Flight Free USA in 2020 as a chapter of the European campaign and with the support of volunteers, friends, and mentors. My spark was my teenage son who came home from 7th grade science and told me that the world was ending unless we acted quickly. I felt shocked to hear this message from my kid and only began to feel agency when I owned up to my own greenhouse gas emissions and pollution. I found joy and relief in choosing a lower carbon lifestyle, which then emboldened me to share and talk about the climate emergency, which has further led me to advocate for system change.There are frequent debates about the importance of individual climate action vs. system change. For me they are two sides of the same coin. I wouldn’t be able to show up for one without the other.Since my family gave up flying five years ago I have had a thousand conversations about climate change. I’ve gone on to help startwww.stopOAKexpansion.organ environmental justice coalition in opposition to my local airport expansion. Aviation is only one climate focus and I am equally passionate about building electrification, transit oriented development, walkable and bikeable cities, pressuring banks to divest from Fossil Fuels, and getting out the vote. Keeping engaged keeps me hopeful.I've chosen to not fly for the sake of the climate - I'm not waiting for climate policy to tell me this or tax me for it. Many of us are already embracing the cultural shift that needs to happen to transition off of fossil fuels and we have good stories to share in this Flight Free gallery. Welcome!

