---
layout: post
title:  Evelyn Wallace, Oregon
description: If you had asked me a little over a year ago the likelihood of me giving up intended flying for the rest of my life, I would have assured you the like...
date:   2024-01-23 00:00:00 +0300
image:  '/images/evelyn-wallace-oregon.jpg'
tags:   ['oregon']
---
If you had asked me a little over a year ago the likelihood of me giving up intended flying for the rest of my life, I would have assured you the likelihood was slim to none, probably closer to none. I was a world traveler and proud of it. I had explored other cultures, lived among communities as a cultural minority, and done the hard work of breaking out of my own comfort zone. I was living life the right way, wasn’t I?That all changed in early 2023, when I somewhat accidentally stumbled into a Sustainability Leadership workshop lead byJosh Spodek. It was never suggested to me that I give up flying. In fact, it was never suggested to me that I do anything particular, sustainability-wise. “Ten Little Things You Can Do To Save The Environment” this approach was not.Instead, I was lead into reflecting on my own values, and into seeing where my life could use… shall we say, a little more alignment between my values and behaviors. In the workshop, the shape this alignment took was up to me. My first actionable change was a moderately hesitant commitment to ride my son to day care once a week instead of drive. I did it. And you know what? It was fun! I found I wanted to do it more. It wasn’t long (a few months?) before I had fallen in love with biking: the speed, the combination of commute and workout, the exposure to the best skyscapes, the astounding number of “hellos” and connecting with new and old friends… not to mention the financial liberation from filling up the gas tank. In addition to biking, I started looking at my food differently (why did it all come with so much free trash?). I started looking at my energy use differently.Over the course of the next year, living in alignment with my own values turned into a recognition that polluting hurts people, and that flying is one of the polluting-est things humans do. So, I could either continue a behavior that I knew to be out of alignment with my own values… or I could change that behavior.I took my last intended flight in May of 2023 from Oregon to New York. It was a farewell of sorts, and an opportunity to meet--in person--my two mentors: one my sustainability teacher and one my Hip Hop Teacha. Now, when I ride my bike coast to coast to reconnect with these mentors in 2025, I will have had one in-person point of contact with each of them prior to the journey. It doesn’t make taking that last flight benign, but that was the decision I made, and why.I envision a future where our global culture shifts, and air travel (as well as all polluting, unsustainable activities as a whole) is/ are seen as an old fashioned thing: a thing we did before we knew better. And I’m proud to do my part in offering living proof that it is really quite fun on the other side.

